New system improves in-town
satnav accuracy by 90%
What is the purpose of this research?
The aim of
this project
is to develop a
positioning system
for complex urban environments.
This is an example of
a complex urban environment,
where vehicle positioning
is hindered by several
walls that prevent the
GPS signals from properly
reaching the receiver in the car.
We therefore need to develop
a system that enables
reliably positioning
vehicles in an urban environment
by using sensor fusion.
How does sensor fusion work?
We have developed a
sensor fusion system
that integrates the information
supplied by a GPS receiver
with an accelerometer
and a gyroscope unit.
The aim is to improve
the estimation of position
and other parameters,
such as travel speed,
not only when the
GPS signal is impaired,
but also when the GPS signal
is lost altogether.
What are the system's potential applications?
The current status of the project
is a prototype we have developed
for urban positioning,
which resolves the issues
affecting commercial
satnav systems
currently available on the market.
Our prototype can be
installed on any vehicle
and its main applications are,
for example,
autonomous vehicle navigation,
where a vehicle can navigate
in a fully autonomous manner
in an urban environment.
Additionally,
it enables other applications,
such as totally reliable
vehicle tracking
in urban environments.
To what extent does it improve satnav accuracy?
The data fusion
system implemented
can correct the
individual errors
of each of the sensors
involved in the process.
The system's ability to
adapt automatically
has allowed us to improve
vehicle positioning accuracy
by up to 90%.
We have also succeeded
in overcoming the urban
positioning issues of
current satnav systems.
Will you continue
to pursue this line of research?
We have recently started work
on a new line of research,
which involves incorporating this
data fusion system into a mobile phone
that can integrate the measurements
provided by the different sensors
(GPS, accelerometer, gyroscope)
that are built into the mobile phone.
This way we hope to obtain
the same results
at a much lower cost,
using a device that anyone
can carry in their pocket.
(Music)